README.md, before:

# Relative Risk Causal Forests

PRELIMINARY RELEASE

A modification of the GRF package that targets relative risk heterogeneity in causal forests.

### Installation

This development code can be installed from source using devtools.

```R
devtools::install_github("vshirvaikar/rrcf", subdir = "r-package/rrcf")
```

### Guidance

The following script demonstrates how to implement a relative risk causal forest. As this code is preliminary, it uses some workarounds that are still in the process of being streamlined.

```R
library(rrcf)

# Generate data.
n <- 2000
p <- 10
X <- matrix(rnorm(n * p), n, p)
X.test <- matrix(0, 101, p)
X.test[, 1] <- seq(-2, 2, length.out = 101)
W <- rbinom(n, 1, 0.4 + 0.2 * (X[, 1] > 0))
Y <- pmax(X[, 1], 0) * W + X[, 2] + pmin(X[, 3], 0) + rnorm(n)

# Train a relative risk causal forest.
# 1. Since the forest splitting rule is based on Poisson regression, the Y and W
#    inputs should not be centered as in the original GRF code, so the Y.hat and
#    W.hat inputs are instead specified as vectors of zeros.
# 2. The imbalance.penalty value of 100 serves as a flag within the code to use
#    the relative risk splitting rule. This is in the process of being spun out
#    as a separate rr_forest function.
zeros = numeric(length(Y))
forest.rr = causal_forest(X, Y, W, Y.hat=zeros, W.hat=zeros, imbalance.penalty=100)
```

### References

Vik Shirvaikar and Chris Holmes.
<b>Targeting Relative Risk Heterogeneity with Causal Forests.</b> <i>In prep</i>, 2023. 
[<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lqC8FxTEPpnpy3gaVjgr9AHsfb03YWxS/view?usp=sharing">paper</a>]

Susan Athey, Julie Tibshirani and Stefan Wager.
<b>Generalized Random Forests.</b> <i>Annals of Statistics</i>, 47(2), 2019.
[<a href="https://projecteuclid.org/euclid.aos/1547197251">paper</a>,
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01271">arxiv</a>]

Stefan Wager and Susan Athey.
<b>Estimation and Inference of Heterogeneous Treatment Effects using Random Forests.</b>
<i>Journal of the American Statistical Association</i>, 113(523), 2018.
[<a href="https://www.tandfonline.com/eprint/v7p66PsDhHCYiPafTJwC/full">paper</a>,
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.04342">arxiv</a>]

Commit message:

Update rr_causal_forest function

README.md, after:

# Relative Risk Causal Forests

A modification of the GRF package that targets relative risk heterogeneity in causal forests.

### Installation

This development code can be installed from source using devtools. We strongly recommend installing the original GRF package first, as it provides all analysis functions related to causal forests (variable importance, visualization, etc.)

```R
install.packages("grf")
devtools::install_github("vshirvaikar/rrcf", subdir = "r-package/rrcf")

library(grf)
library(rrcf)
```

### Guidance

The following script demonstrates how to implement a relative risk causal forest. As this code is preliminary, it uses some workarounds that are still in the process of being streamlined.

```R
# Generate data.
n <- 2000
p <- 10
X <- matrix(rnorm(n * p), n, p)
X.test <- matrix(0, 101, p)
X.test[, 1] <- seq(-2, 2, length.out = 101)
W <- rbinom(n, 1, 0.4 + 0.2 * (X[, 1] > 0))
Y <- pmax(X[, 1], 0) * W + X[, 2] + pmin(X[, 3], 0) + rnorm(n)

# Train a relative risk causal forest.
# 1. Since the forest splitting rule is based on Poisson regression, the Y and W
#    inputs should not be centered as in the original GRF code, so the Y.hat and
#    W.hat inputs are instead specified as vectors of zeros.
# 2. The imbalance.penalty value of 100 serves as a flag within the code to use
#    the relative risk splitting rule. This is in the process of being spun out
#    as a separate rr_forest function.
zeros = numeric(length(Y))
forest.rr = causal_forest(X, Y, W, Y.hat=zeros, W.hat=zeros, imbalance.penalty=100)
```

### References

Vik Shirvaikar and Chris Holmes.
<b>Targeting Relative Risk Heterogeneity with Causal Forests.</b> <i>In prep</i>, 2023. 
[<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lqC8FxTEPpnpy3gaVjgr9AHsfb03YWxS/view?usp=sharing">paper</a>]

Susan Athey, Julie Tibshirani and Stefan Wager.
<b>Generalized Random Forests.</b> <i>Annals of Statistics</i>, 47(2), 2019.
[<a href="https://projecteuclid.org/euclid.aos/1547197251">paper</a>,
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01271">arxiv</a>]

Stefan Wager and Susan Athey.
<b>Estimation and Inference of Heterogeneous Treatment Effects using Random Forests.</b>
<i>Journal of the American Statistical Association</i>, 113(523), 2018.
[<a href="https://www.tandfonline.com/eprint/v7p66PsDhHCYiPafTJwC/full">paper</a>,
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.04342">arxiv</a>]
